Add intro (#14289)
dotnet/docs: docs/architecture/blazor-for-web-forms-developers/introduction.md

# An introduction to Blazor for ASP.NET Web Forms developers

> ASP.NET Web Forms has been a staple of .NET web development since the .NET Framework first shipped in 2002. Back when the Web was still largely in its infancy, ASP.NET Web Forms made building web apps simple and productive by adopting many of the patterns that were used for desktop development. In ASP.NET Web Forms apps, web pages are composed from reusable UI controls. User interactions are handled as events. A rich ecosystem of Web Forms UI controls provided by Microsoft and third-party control vendors makes connecting to data and displaying rich visualizations easy. For the visually inclined, the Web Forms designer provides a simple drag-and-drop interface for laying out controls.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ASP.NET Web Forms has been a staple of .NET web development since the .NET Framework first shipped in 2002. Back when the Web was still largely in its infancy, ASP.NET Web Forms made building web apps simple and productive by adopting many of the patterns that were used for desktop development. In ASP.NET Web Forms apps, web pages are composed from reusable UI controls. User interactions are handled as events. A rich ecosystem of Web Forms UI controls provided by Microsoft and third-party control vendors makes connecting to data sources and displaying rich visualizations easy. For the visually inclined, the Web Forms designer provides a simple drag-and-drop interface for laying out controls.
```

> Over the years Microsoft has introduced new ASP.NET based web frameworks to address new trends in web development: ASP.NET MVC, ASP.NET Web Pages, and more recently ASP.NET Core. With each new framework, some have predicted the imminent decline of ASP.NET Web Forms and criticized it as an outdated and outmoded web framework. Despite these predictions, many .NET web developers continue to find ASP.NET Web Forms as a simple, stable, and productive way to get their work done. At the time of this writing almost half a million web developers use ASP.NET Web Forms every month. ASP.NET Web Forms is stable to the point that docs, samples, books, and blog posts from a decade ago remain useful and relevant. For many .NET web developers "ASP.NET" is still virtually synonymous with "ASP.NET Web Forms" as it was when .NET was first conceived. Arguments may rage on the pros and cons of ASP.NET Web Forms relative to the other new .NET web frameworks but ASP.NET Web Forms development remains a popular way to write web apps.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Over the years Microsoft has introduced new ASP.NET-based web frameworks to address new trends in web development, such as ASP.NET MVC, ASP.NET Web Pages, and more recently ASP.NET Core. With each new framework, some have predicted the imminent decline of ASP.NET Web Forms and criticized it as an outdated and outmoded web framework. Despite these predictions, many .NET web developers continue to find ASP.NET Web Forms a simple, stable, and productive way to get their work done. At the time of this writing almost half a million web developers use ASP.NET Web Forms every month. ASP.NET Web Forms is stable to the point that docs, samples, books, and blog posts from a decade ago remain useful and relevant. For many .NET web developers "ASP.NET" is still virtually synonymous with "ASP.NET Web Forms" as it was when .NET was first conceived. Arguments may rage on the pros and cons of ASP.NET Web Forms relative to the other new .NET web frameworks, but ASP.NET Web Forms development remains a popular way to write web apps.
```

> Over the years, Microsoft has introduced new ASP.NET-based web frameworks to address new trends in web development, such as ASP.NET MVC, ASP.NET Web Pages, and more recently ASP.NET Core. With each new framework, some have predicted the imminent decline of ASP.NET Web Forms and criticized it as an outdated and outmoded web framework. Despite these predictions, many .NET web developers continue to find ASP.NET Web Forms a simple, stable, and productive way to get their work done. At the time of this writing, almost half a million web developers use ASP.NET Web Forms every month. ASP.NET Web Forms is stable to the point that docs, samples, books, and blog posts from a decade ago remain useful and relevant. For many .NET web developers, "ASP.NET" is still virtually synonymous with "ASP.NET Web Forms" as it was when .NET was first conceived. Arguments may rage on the pros and cons of ASP.NET Web Forms compared to the other new .NET web frameworks, but ASP.NET Web Forms development remains a popular way to write web apps.

Reviewer: I think we should be careful about what we identify as a framework, as there's a significant difference in granularity. I suggest using a term like "application model" to categorize app types (ASP.NET MVC and ASP.NET Web Pages) within ASP.NET 4.x. Use the term "framework" to categorize ASP.NET Core. Maybe something like the following:

```suggestion
Over the years, Microsoft has introduced new ASP.NET-based application models to address new trends in web development, such as ASP.NET MVC and ASP.NET Web Pages. More recently, ASP.NET Core was released as a reimagining of the ASP.NET framework. With each new application model and framework, some have predicted the imminent decline of ASP.NET Web Forms and criticized it as an outdated and outmoded web framework. Despite these predictions, many .NET web developers continue to find ASP.NET Web Forms a simple, stable, and productive way to get their work done. At the time of this writing, almost half a million web developers use ASP.NET Web Forms every month. ASP.NET Web Forms is stable to the point that docs, samples, books, and blog posts from a decade ago remain useful and relevant. For many .NET web developers, "ASP.NET" is still virtually synonymous with "ASP.NET Web Forms" as it was when .NET was first conceived. Arguments may rage on the pros and cons of ASP.NET Web Forms compared to the other new ASP.NET application models, but ASP.NET Web Forms development remains a popular way to write web apps.
```

Author: I'd rather not try to make this distinction between frameworks and app models. I don't think the difference is as well defined as this. Frameworks come in all shapes and sizes :smile:.

Even so, with the rapid pace of innovation and change in software development, all software developers have a need to stay abreast of new technologies and trends, and this is true for ASP.NET Web Forms developers as well. Two trends in particular are worth examining: 

1. The shift to open source and cross-platform.

> 2. The shift to the client.

Reviewer: Be more specific about the role the client plays. Maybe something like the following:

```suggestion
2. The shift of application logic to the client.
```

## An open-source and cross-platform .NET

> When .NET and ASP.NET Web Forms first shipped, the platform ecosystem looked very different than it does today. The desktop and server markets were strongly dominated by Windows, with alternative platforms like macOS and Linux still struggling to get traction. ASP.NET Web Forms ships with the .NET Framework as a Windows-only component, which means ASP.NET Web Forms apps can only run on Windows Server machines. Many modern environments now use different kinds of platforms for servers and development machines such that cross-platform support for many users is an absolute requirement.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When .NET Framework and ASP.NET Web Forms first shipped, the platform ecosystem looked very different than it does today. The desktop and server markets were strongly dominated by Windows, with alternative platforms like macOS and Linux still struggling to gain traction. ASP.NET Web Forms ships with the .NET Framework as a Windows-only component, which means ASP.NET Web Forms apps can only run on Windows Server machines. Many modern environments now use different kinds of platforms for servers and development machines such that cross-platform support is an absolute requirement for many users.
```

Author: Saying .NET here sounds more natural to me and I don't think the specific .NET runtime implementation is relevant here.

> Most modern web frameworks are now also open source, which has a number of benefits. Users are not beholden to a single project owner to fix bugs and add features. Open source projects provide improved transparency on development progress and upcoming changes. Open source projects enjoy contributions from an entire community and they foster a supportive open source ecosystem. While there are still risks associated with open source, many open source consumers and contributors have found suitable mitigations (contributor license agreements, friendly licenses, pedigree scans, supporting foundations, etc.) enable them to enjoy the benefits of an open source ecosystem in a safe and reasonable way.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Most modern web frameworks are now also open source, which has a number of benefits. Users are not beholden to a single project owner to fix bugs and add features. Open source projects provide improved transparency on development progress and upcoming changes. Open source projects enjoy contributions from an entire community, and they foster a supportive open source ecosystem. While there are still risks associated with open source, many open source consumers and contributors have found suitable mitigations (contributor license agreements, friendly licenses, pedigree scans, supporting foundations, etc.) that enable them to enjoy the benefits of an open source ecosystem in a safe and reasonable way.
```

> Most modern web frameworks are now also open source, which has a number of benefits. Users are not beheld to a single project owner to fix bugs and add features. Open-source projects provide improved transparency on development progress and upcoming changes. Open-source projects enjoy contributions from an entire community, and they foster a supportive open-source ecosystem. While there are still risks associated with open source, many open-source consumers and contributors have found suitable mitigations (such as contributor license agreements, friendly licenses, pedigree scans, supporting foundations, and so on) that enable them to enjoy the benefits of an open-source ecosystem in a safe and reasonable way.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most modern web frameworks are now also open source, which has a number of benefits. Users are not beheld to a single project owner to fix bugs and add features. Open-source projects provide improved transparency on development progress and upcoming changes. Open-source projects enjoy contributions from an entire community, and they foster a supportive open-source ecosystem. While there are risks associated with open source, many open-source consumers and contributors have found suitable mitigations that enable them to enjoy the benefits of an open-source ecosystem in a safe and reasonable way. Examples of such mitigations include contributor license agreements, friendly licenses, pedigree scans, and supporting foundations.
```

> The .NET community has embraced both cross-platform support and open source. .NET Core is an open source and cross-platform version of .NET that runs on a variety of platforms, including Windows, macOS, and different Linux distributions. Xamarin provides an open source version of .NET that runs on Android, iOS, and a variety of other form factors including watches and smart TVs. Microsoft has announced that for [.NET 5](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/dotnet/introducing-net-5/) both .NET Core and Xamarin are to be reconciled into "a single .NET runtime and framework that can be used everywhere and that has uniform runtime behaviors and developer experiences."

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The .NET community has embraced both cross-platform support and open source. .NET Core is an open source and cross-platform version of .NET that runs on a variety of platforms, including Windows, macOS, and different Linux distributions. Xamarin provides an open source version of .NET that runs on Android, iOS, and a variety of other form factors, including watches and smart TVs. Microsoft has announced that for [.NET 5](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/dotnet/introducing-net-5/) both .NET Core and Xamarin are to be reconciled into "a single .NET runtime and framework that can be used everywhere and that has uniform runtime behaviors and developer experiences."
```

> The .NET community has embraced both cross-platform support and open source. .NET Core is an open-source and cross-platform version of .NET that runs on a variety of platforms, including Windows, macOS, and different Linux distributions. Xamarin provides an open-source version of .NET that runs on Android, iOS, and a variety of other form factors, including watches and smart TVs. Microsoft has announced that for [.NET 5](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/dotnet/introducing-net-5/) both .NET Core and Xamarin are to be reconciled into "a single .NET runtime and framework that can be used everywhere and that has uniform runtime behaviors and developer experiences."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The .NET community has embraced both cross-platform support and open source. .NET Core is an open-source and cross-platform version of .NET that runs on a variety of platforms, including Windows, macOS, and various Linux distributions. Xamarin provides Mono, an open-source version of .NET that runs on Android, iOS, and a variety of other form factors, including watches and smart TVs. Microsoft has announced that for [.NET 5](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/dotnet/introducing-net-5/) both .NET Core and Mono are to be reconciled into "a single .NET runtime and framework that can be used everywhere and that has uniform runtime behaviors and developer experiences."
```

> Will ASP.NET Web Forms benefit from this move to open source and cross-platform support? The answer, unfortunately, is no, or at least not to the same extent as the rest of the platform. The .NET team [recently made it clear](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/dotnet/net-core-is-the-future-of-net/) that ASP.NET Web Forms will not be brought to .NET Core or .NET 5. Why is that? Efforts were made in the early days of .NET Core to bring over ASP.NET Web Forms, but the number of breaking changes required were found to be too drastic. There is perhaps also an admission here that even for Microsoft there is a limit to the number of web frameworks that it can support simultaneously. Perhaps someone in the community will take up the cause of creating an open source and cross-platform version of ASP.NET Web Forms. The [source code for ASP.NET Web Forms](https://github.com/microsoft/referencesource) has been made available publicly, although only in reference form. But, for the time being it seems ASP.NET Web Forms will remain Windows only and without an open source contribution model. If cross-platform support or open source become important for your scenarios, then you'll need to look for something new.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Will ASP.NET Web Forms benefit from this move to open source and cross-platform support? The answer, unfortunately, is no, or at least not to the same extent as the rest of the platform. The .NET team [recently made it clear](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/dotnet/net-core-is-the-future-of-net/) that ASP.NET Web Forms will not be brought to .NET Core or .NET 5. Why is that? Efforts were made in the early days of .NET Core to bring over ASP.NET Web Forms, but the number of breaking changes required were found to be too drastic. There is perhaps also an admission here that even for Microsoft, there is a limit to the number of web frameworks that it can support simultaneously. Perhaps someone in the community will take up the cause of creating an open source and cross-platform version of ASP.NET Web Forms. The [source code for ASP.NET Web Forms](https://github.com/microsoft/referencesource) has been made available publicly, although only in reference form. But for the time being, it seems ASP.NET Web Forms will remain Windows-only and without an open source contribution model. If cross-platform support or open source become important for your scenarios, then you'll need to look for something new.
```

> Does this mean ASP.NET Web Forms is *dead* and should no longer be used? Of course not! As long as the .NET Framework continues to ship as part of Windows it will be a supported framework.  If you don't have a requirement for cross-platform support or open source or any of the other new features in .NET Core or .NET 5 then sticking with ASP.NET Web Forms on Windows is just fine. ASP.NET Web Forms development will be alive and well for many years to come. But, there is another trend worth considering, and that is the shift to the client.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Does this mean ASP.NET Web Forms is *dead* and should no longer be used? Of course not! As long as the .NET Framework continues to ship as part of Windows, it will be a supported framework.  If you don't have a requirement for cross-platform support or open source or any of the other new features in .NET Core or .NET 5, then sticking with ASP.NET Web Forms on Windows is just fine. ASP.NET Web Forms development will be alive and well for many years to come. But there is another trend worth considering, and that is the shift to the client.
```

Reviewer 2: This is very discouraging until the second paragraph before the get started with Blazor section. I think that I would tend to stress here that ASP.NET Web Forms will continue to be viable for a long time to come, and move the "But there is another trend worth considering..." sentence to its own paragraph and expand it slightly: that client-side web development moves processing away from the server (where server systems must incur the cost of processing) to client systems, and that a technology such as Blazor  (with a link to the Blazor section) allows Web Forms developers to take advantage of client-side processing while using the familiar paradigms of web forms.

## Client-side web development

> All of the various .NET based web frameworks including ASP.NET Web Forms have historically had one thing in common, which is they are *server-rendered*. In server-rendered web apps the browser makes a request to the server, which then executes some code (.NET code in ASP.NET apps) to produce a response that is sent back to the browser to handle. In this model the browser is used as a thin rendering engine. All of the hard work of producing the UI, running the business logic, and managing state happens on the server.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All of the various .NET based web frameworks, including ASP.NET Web Forms, have historically had one thing in common: they are *server-rendered*. In server-rendered web apps, the browser makes a request to the server, which then executes some code (.NET code in ASP.NET apps) to produce a response that is sent back to the browser to handle. In this model, the browser is used as a thin rendering engine. All of the hard work of producing the UI, running the business logic, and managing state happens on the server.
```

All of the various .NET based web frameworks, including ASP.NET Web Forms, have historically had one thing in common: they're *server-rendered*. In server-rendered web apps, the browser makes a request to the server, which then executes some code (.NET code in ASP.NET apps) to produce a response that is sent back to the browser to handle. In this model, the browser is used as a thin rendering engine. All of the hard work of producing the UI, running the business logic, and managing state happens on the server.

> However, browsers have become versatile platforms implementing an ever-increasing number of open web standards that grant access to the capabilities of the user's machine. Why not take advantage of the compute power, storage, memory, and other resources of the client device? UI interactions in particular can benefit from a richer and more interactive feel when handled at least partially or completely client-side. Logic and data that should be handled on the server can still be handled server-side using Web API calls or even over real-time protocols, like WebSockets. All of these benefits are available to web developers for free as long as they're willing to write some JavaScript. Client-side UI frameworks that simplify browser development, like Angular, React, and Vue, have grown in popularity. ASP.NET Web Forms developers can also benefit from leveraging the client, and even have some out of the box support with integrated JavaScript frameworks like ASP.NET AJAX.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, browsers have become versatile platforms implementing an ever-increasing number of open web standards that grant access to the capabilities of the user's machine. Why not take advantage of the compute power, storage, memory, and other resources of the client device? UI interactions in particular can benefit from a richer and more interactive feel when handled at least partially or completely client-side. Logic and data that should be handled on the server can still be handled server-side using web API calls or even over real-time protocols, like WebSockets. All of these benefits are available to web developers for free as long as they're willing to write some JavaScript. Client-side UI frameworks that simplify client-side web development, like Angular, React, and Vue, have grown in popularity. ASP.NET Web Forms developers can also benefit from leveraging the client, and even have some out-of-the-box support with integrated JavaScript frameworks like ASP.NET AJAX.
```

> But having to bridge two different platforms and ecosystems (.NET and JavaScript) comes with a cost. You as the web developer have to become an expert in two parallel worlds with different languages, frameworks, and tools. Code and logic cannot be easily shared between client and server resulting in duplication and engineering overhead. For some, it is also difficult to keep up with the JavaScript ecosystem, which has a history of evolving at breakneck speed, quickly changing preferences for different frontend frameworks (jQuery, Knockout, Angular, React, Vue, etc.) and build tools (grunt, gulp, webpack, etc.). But given JavaScript's browser monopoly there was little choice in the matter. That is until the web community got together and caused a *miracle* to happen!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
But having to bridge two different platforms and ecosystems (.NET and JavaScript) comes with a cost. You as the web developer have to become an expert in two parallel worlds with different languages, frameworks, and tools. Code and logic cannot be easily shared between client and server, resulting in duplication and engineering overhead. For some, it is also difficult to keep up with the JavaScript ecosystem, which has a history of evolving at breakneck speed, quickly changing preferences for different frontend frameworks (jQuery, Knockout, Angular, React, Vue, etc.) and build tools (grunt, gulp, webpack, etc.). But given JavaScript's browser monopoly there was little choice in the matter. That is until the web community got together and caused a *miracle* to happen!
```

> But having to bridge two different platforms and ecosystems (.NET and JavaScript) comes with a cost. You as the web developer have to become an expert in two parallel worlds with different languages, frameworks, and tools. Code and logic cannot be easily shared between client and server, resulting in duplication and engineering overhead. It can also be difficult to keep up with the JavaScript ecosystem, which has a history of evolving at breakneck speed, quickly changing preferences for different front-end frameworks (such as jQuery, Knockout, Angular, React, Vue, and so on) and build tools (such as grunt, gulp, webpack, and so on). But given JavaScript's browser monopoly there was little choice in the matter. That is until the web community got together and caused a *miracle* to happen!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But having to bridge two different platforms and ecosystems (.NET and JavaScript) comes with a cost. You, as the web developer, have to become an expert in two parallel worlds with different languages, frameworks, and tools. Code and logic cannot be easily shared between client and server, resulting in duplication and engineering overhead. It can also be difficult to keep up with the JavaScript ecosystem, which has a history of evolving at breakneck speed, quickly changing preferences for different front-end frameworks (such as jQuery, Knockout, Angular, React, Vue, and so on) and build tools (such as grunt, gulp, webpack, and so on). But given JavaScript's browser monopoly, there was little choice in the matter. That is until the web community got together and caused a *miracle* to happen!
```

> In 2015 the major browser vendors joined forces in a W3C Community Group to create a new open web standard called WebAssembly. WebAssembly is a byte code for the Web. The idea is that if you can compile your code to WebAssembly it can then run on any browser on any platform at near native speed. Initial efforts focused on C/C++ resulting in some pretty dramatic demonstrations of getting native 3D graphics engines running directly in the browser without any plugins. WebAssembly has since been standardized and implemented by all major browsers. Work on running .NET on WebAssembly was announced in late 2017 and is expected to ship in 2020 including support from .NET 5. The ability to run .NET code directly in the browser enables full-stack web development with .NET.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In 2015 the major browser vendors joined forces in a W3C Community Group to create a new open web standard called WebAssembly. WebAssembly is a byte code for the Web. The idea is that if you can compile your code to WebAssembly, it can then run on any browser on any platform at near native speed. Initial efforts focused on C/C++, resulting in some pretty dramatic demonstrations of getting native 3D graphics engines running directly in the browser without any plugins. WebAssembly has since been standardized and implemented by all major browsers. Work on running .NET on WebAssembly was announced in late 2017 and is expected to ship in 2020, including support from .NET 5. The ability to run .NET code directly in the browser enables full-stack web development with .NET.
```

## Blazor: full-stack web development with .NET

> But just being able to run .NET code in a browser doesn't give you an end-to-end experience building client-side web apps. That's where Blazor comes in. Blazor is a new client-side web UI framework based on C# instead of JavaScript that can run directly in the browser via WebAssembly. No browser plugins required. Alternatively, Blazor apps can run server-side on .NET Core and handle all user interactions over a real-time connection with the browser. Blazor includes a full UI component model, as well as built-in facilities for forms & validation, dependency injection, client-side routing, layouts, in-browser debugging, and JavaScript interop. Blazor also comes with great tooling support in Visual Studio and Visual Studio Code.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
But just being able to run .NET code in a browser doesn't give you an end-to-end experience building client-side web apps. That's where Blazor comes in. Blazor is a new client-side web UI framework based on C# instead of JavaScript that can run directly in the browser via WebAssembly. No browser plugins are required. Alternatively, Blazor apps can run server-side on .NET Core and handle all user interactions over a real-time connection with the browser. Blazor includes a full UI component model, as well as built-in facilities for forms and validation, dependency injection, client-side routing, layouts, in-browser debugging, and JavaScript interop. Blazor also comes with great tooling support in Visual Studio and Visual Studio Code.
```

But just being able to run .NET code in a browser doesn't give you an end-to-end experience building client-side web apps. That's where Blazor comes in. Blazor is a new client-side web UI framework based on C# instead of JavaScript that can run directly in the browser via WebAssembly. No browser plugins are required. Alternatively, Blazor apps can run server-side on .NET Core and handle all user interactions over a real-time connection with the browser. Blazor includes a full UI component model and built-in facilities for forms and validation, dependency injection, client-side routing, layouts, in-browser debugging, and JavaScript interop. Blazor also comes with great tooling support in Visual Studio and Visual Studio Code.

> Blazor shares a lot in common with ASP.NET Web Forms: both frameworks are component-based, event-driven, stateful UI programming models. The main architectural difference is that ASP.NET Web Forms runs on the server, while Blazor can run on the client in the browser. But if you're coming from an ASP.NET Web Forms background, there's a lot in Blazor that will feel very familiar. Blazor is a natural solution for ASP.NET Web Forms developers looking for a way to take advantage of client-side development and the open-source and cross-platform future of .NET.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Blazor shares a lot in common with ASP.NET Web Forms. Both frameworks are component-based, event-driven, stateful UI programming models. The main architectural difference is that ASP.NET Web Forms runs on the server, while Blazor can run on the client in the browser. But if you're coming from an ASP.NET Web Forms background, there's a lot in Blazor that will feel very familiar. Blazor is a natural solution for ASP.NET Web Forms developers looking for a way to take advantage of client-side development and the open-source, cross-platform future of .NET.
```

> This book gives an introduction to Blazor that is catered specifically to ASP.NET Web Forms developers. Each Blazor concept is presented in the context of analogous ASP.NET Web Forms features and practices. By the end of this book, you should have a solid understanding of how to build Blazor apps, how Blazor works, how it ties in with .NET Core, and also some reasonable strategies for migrating existing ASP.NET Web Forms apps to Blazor where appropriate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This book provides an introduction to Blazor that is catered specifically to ASP.NET Web Forms developers. Each Blazor concept is presented in the context of analogous ASP.NET Web Forms features and practices. By the end of this book, you should have a solid understanding of how to build Blazor apps, how Blazor works, how it ties in with .NET Core, and also some reasonable strategies for migrating existing ASP.NET Web Forms apps to Blazor where appropriate.
```

> Getting started with Blazor is easy. Simply go to https://blazor.net and then follow the links to install the appropriate .NET Core SDK and Blazor project templates. You'll also find instructions for getting setup with the Blazor tooling in Visual Studio or Visual Studio Code.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Getting started with Blazor is easy. Simply go to https://blazor.net and then follow the links to install the appropriate .NET Core SDK and Blazor project templates. You'll also find instructions for getting set up with the Blazor tooling in Visual Studio or Visual Studio Code.
```

> Getting started with Blazor is easy. Go to <https://blazor.net> and follow the links to install the appropriate .NET Core SDK and Blazor project templates. You'll also find instructions for setting up the Blazor tooling in Visual Studio or Visual Studio Code.

Reviewer: What's the tooling story for VS for Mac?

Author: Since this book is targeted at Web Forms developers, I think it's reasonable to focus on the Windows + Visual Studio experience

Even so, with the rapid pace of innovation and change in software development, all software developers have a need to stay abreast of new technologies and trends, and this is true for ASP.NET Web Forms developers as well. Two trends in particular are worth examining: 

1. The shift to open source and cross-platform
2. The shift to the client

## An open source and cross-platform .NET

> When .NET and ASP.NET Web Forms first shipped, the platform ecosystem looked very different than it does today. The desktop and server markets were strongly dominated by Windows, with alternative platforms like macOS and Linux still struggling to get traction. ASP.NET Web Forms ships with the .NET Framework as a Windows-only component, which means ASP.NET Web Forms apps can only run on Windows Server machines. Many modern environments now use a variety of platforms for servers and development machines such that cross-platform support for many users is an absolute requirement.

Reviewer 3: a variety of is considered too formal

```suggestion
When .NET and ASP.NET Web Forms first shipped, the platform ecosystem looked very different than it does today. The desktop and server markets were strongly dominated by Windows, with alternative platforms like macOS and Linux still struggling to get traction. ASP.NET Web Forms ships with the .NET Framework as a Windows-only component, which means ASP.NET Web Forms apps can only run on Windows Server machines. Many modern environments now use different kinds of platforms for servers and development machines such that cross-platform support for many users is an absolute requirement.
```

> Does this mean ASP.NET Web Forms is *dead* and should no longer be used? Of course not! As long as the .NET Framework continues to ship as part of Windows, it will be a supported framework. If you don't have a requirement for cross-platform support or open source or any of the other new features in .NET Core or .NET 5, then sticking with ASP.NET Web Forms on Windows is just fine. ASP.NET Web Forms development will be alive and well for many years to come.

Author: I don't think this comma is need here.

But there is another trend worth considering, and that is the shift to the client.

## Client-side web development

All of the various .NET based web frameworks, including ASP.NET Web Forms, have historically had one thing in common: they are *server-rendered*. In server-rendered web apps, the browser makes a request to the server, which then executes some code (.NET code in ASP.NET apps) to produce a response that is sent back to the browser to handle. In this model, the browser is used as a thin rendering engine. All of the hard work of producing the UI, running the business logic, and managing state happens on the server.

> However, browsers have become versatile platforms implementing an ever increasing number of open web standards that grant access to the capabilities of the user's machine. Why not take advantage of the compute power, storage, memory, and other resources of the client device? UI interactions in particular can benefit from a richer and more interactive feel when handled at least partially or completely client-side. Logic and data that should be handled on the server can still be handled server-side using Web API calls or even over real-time protocols, like WebSockets. All of these benefits are available to web developers for free as long as they are willing to write some JavaScript. Client-side UI frameworks that simplify browser development, like Angular, React, and Vue, have exploded in popularity. ASP.NET Web Forms developers can also benefit from leveraging the client, and even have some out of the box support with integrated JavaScript frameworks like ASP.NET AJAX.

Reviewer 3: Also, it seems that Vue is referred as Vue.js and not just Vue?

> However, browsers have become versatile platforms implementing an ever increasing number of open web standards that grant access to the capabilities of the user's machine. Why not take advantage of the compute power, storage, memory, and other resources of the client device? UI interactions in particular can benefit from a richer and more interactive feel when handled at least partially or completely client-side. Logic and data that should be handled on the server can still be handled server-side using Web API calls or even over real-time protocols, like WebSockets. All of these benefits are available to web developers for free as long as they are willing to write some JavaScript. Client-side UI frameworks that simplify browser development, like Angular, React, and Vue, have exploded in popularity. ASP.NET Web Forms developers can also benefit from leveraging the client, and even have some out of the box support with integrated JavaScript frameworks like ASP.NET AJAX.

Author: It's pretty common to just use Vue. For examples, see the Vue docs: https://vuejs.org/v2/guide/.

This book gives an introduction to Blazor that is catered specifically to ASP.NET Web Forms developers. Each Blazor concept is presented in the context of analogous ASP.NET Web Forms features and practices. By the end of this book you should have a solid understanding of how to build Blazor apps, how Blazor works, how it ties in with .NET Core, and also some reasonable strategies for migrating existing ASP.NET Web Forms apps to Blazor where appropriate.

## Getting started with Blazor

Getting started with Blazor is easy. Simply go to https://blazor.net and then follow the links to install the appropriate .NET Core SDK and Blazor project templates. You'll also find instructions for getting set up with the Blazor tooling in Visual Studio or Visual Studio Code.

> 

Reviewer 3: We usually add prev/next buttons to each article on the e-books

# An introduction to Blazor for ASP.NET Web Forms developers

> ASP.NET Web Forms has been a staple of .NET web development since the .NET Framework first shipped in 2002. Back when the Web was still largely in its infancy, ASP.NET Web Forms made building web apps simple and productive by adopting many of the patterns that were used for desktop development. In ASP.NET Web Forms apps, web pages are composed from reusable UI controls. User interactions are handled as events. A rich ecosystem of Web Forms UI controls provided by Microsoft and third-party control vendors makes connecting to data sources and displaying rich visualizations easy. For the visually inclined, the Web Forms designer provides a simple drag-and-drop interface for laying out controls.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ASP.NET Web Forms has been a staple of .NET web development since the .NET Framework first shipped in 2002. Back when the Web was still largely in its infancy, ASP.NET Web Forms made building web apps simple and productive by adopting many of the patterns that were used for desktop development. In ASP.NET Web Forms apps, web pages are composed from reusable UI controls. User interactions are handled as events. A rich ecosystem of Web Forms UI controls provided by Microsoft and third-party control vendors makes connecting to data sources and displaying rich visualizations easy. For the visually inclined, the Web Forms designer provides a simple drag-and-drop interface for managing controls.
```

> Over the years, Microsoft has introduced new ASP.NET-based web frameworks to address new trends in web development, such as ASP.NET MVC, ASP.NET Web Pages, and more recently ASP.NET Core. With each new framework, some have predicted the imminent decline of ASP.NET Web Forms and criticized it as an outdated and outmoded web framework. Despite these predictions, many .NET web developers continue to find ASP.NET Web Forms a simple, stable, and productive way to get their work done. At the time of this writing, almost half a million web developers use ASP.NET Web Forms every month. ASP.NET Web Forms is stable to the point that docs, samples, books, and blog posts from a decade ago remain useful and relevant. For many .NET web developers, "ASP.NET" is still virtually synonymous with "ASP.NET Web Forms" as it was when .NET was first conceived. Arguments may rage on the pros and cons of ASP.NET Web Forms compared to the other new .NET web frameworks, but ASP.NET Web Forms development remains a popular way to write web apps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Over the years, Microsoft has introduced new ASP.NET-based web frameworks to address new trends in web development, such as ASP.NET MVC, ASP.NET Web Pages, and more recently ASP.NET Core. With each new framework, some have predicted the imminent decline of ASP.NET Web Forms and criticized it as an outdated and outmoded web framework. Despite these predictions, many .NET web developers continue to find ASP.NET Web Forms a simple, stable, and productive way to get their work done. At the time of this writing, almost half a million web developers use ASP.NET Web Forms every month. ASP.NET Web Forms is stable to the point that docs, samples, books, and blog posts from a decade ago remain useful and relevant. For many .NET web developers, "ASP.NET" is still virtually synonymous with "ASP.NET Web Forms" as it was when .NET was first conceived. Arguments may rage on the pros and cons of ASP.NET Web Forms compared to the other new .NET web frameworks, but ASP.NET Web Forms remains a popular framework for creating web apps.
```

> Even so, with the rapid pace of innovation and change in software development, all software developers have a need to stay abreast of new technologies and trends, and this is true for ASP.NET Web Forms developers as well. Two trends in particular are worth examining: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Even so, with the rapid pace of innovation and change in software development, all software developers have a need to stay abreast of new technologies and trends. This is true for ASP.NET Web Forms developers as well. Two trends in particular are worth examining: 
```

Most modern web frameworks are now also open source, which has a number of benefits. Users are not beheld to a single project owner to fix bugs and add features. Open-source projects provide improved transparency on development progress and upcoming changes. Open-source projects enjoy contributions from an entire community, and they foster a supportive open-source ecosystem. While there are risks associated with open source, many open-source consumers and contributors have found suitable mitigations that enable them to enjoy the benefits of an open-source ecosystem in a safe and reasonable way. Examples of such mitigations include contributor license agreements, friendly licenses, pedigree scans, and supporting foundations.

> The .NET community has embraced both cross-platform support and open source. .NET Core is an open-source and cross-platform version of .NET that runs on a variety of platforms, including Windows, macOS, and various Linux distributions. Xamarin provides Mono, an open-source version of .NET that runs on Android, iOS, and a variety of other form factors, including watches and smart TVs. Microsoft has announced that for [.NET 5](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/dotnet/introducing-net-5/) both .NET Core and Mono are to be reconciled into "a single .NET runtime and framework that can be used everywhere and that has uniform runtime behaviors and developer experiences."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The .NET community has embraced both cross-platform support and open source. .NET Core is an open-source and cross-platform implementation of .NET that runs on a variety of platforms, including Windows, macOS, and various Linux distributions. Xamarin provides Mono, an open-source version of .NET that runs on Android, iOS, and a variety of other form factors, including watches and smart TVs. Microsoft has announced that for [.NET 5](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/dotnet/introducing-net-5/) both .NET Core and Mono are to be reconciled into "a single .NET runtime and framework that can be used everywhere and that has uniform runtime behaviors and developer experiences."
```

Does this mean ASP.NET Web Forms is *dead* and should no longer be used? Of course not! As long as the .NET Framework continues to ship as part of Windows, it will be a supported framework. If you don't have a requirement for cross-platform support or open source or any of the other new features in .NET Core or .NET 5, then sticking with ASP.NET Web Forms on Windows is just fine. ASP.NET Web Forms development will be alive and well for many years to come.

But there's another trend worth considering, and that's the shift to the client.

## Client-side web development

> All of the various .NET based web frameworks, including ASP.NET Web Forms, have historically had one thing in common: they're *server-rendered*. In server-rendered web apps, the browser makes a request to the server, which then executes some code (.NET code in ASP.NET apps) to produce a response that is sent back to the browser to handle. In this model, the browser is used as a thin rendering engine. All of the hard work of producing the UI, running the business logic, and managing state happens on the server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All of the .NET-based web frameworks, including ASP.NET Web Forms, have historically had one thing in common: they're *server-rendered*. In server-rendered web apps, the browser makes a request to the server, which then executes some code (.NET code in ASP.NET apps) to produce a response that is sent back to the browser to handle. In this model, the browser is used as a thin rendering engine. All of the hard work of producing the UI, running the business logic, and managing state happens on the server.
```
